Source: The Alligator
URL: https://www.alligator.org/article/2025/08/a-new-student-s-guide-to-the-gainesville-food-scene

Freshman year of college is a mountain to climb. Many obstacles lie in the wake of the best times most college students will experience. Maybe you’ll make new friends or join clubs. Maybe you’ll change your major a couple times, like I did, or make huge mistakes and end up dropping out of college. Who knows? 

Through all the uncertainty, there is one activity of permanence: eating. Unless you're secretly a robot or can photosynthesize, you’re going to need food. You’ll probably start with eating at the dining halls on campus or cooking for yourself. But eventually you’re going to decide to treat yourself, and when you do, it helps to know the restaurant scene. 

Whether it’s going on a date, exploring with friends or enjoying some alone time, eating like a local will benefit you greatly. With that in mind, I wanted to give my top five restaurants in Gainesville and some must-order options. 

Take these recommendations with a grain of salt, as they’re not in order, nor could I include every amazing Gainesville restaurant. I urge you to engage with Gainesville culture beyond this list. Go to funky restaurants, start a conversation with the employees and try unique foods. An open stomach often leads to an open mind. 

The Paper Bag

Let's start with an easy one. This restaurant recently added a campus location, vouching for its popularity. 

Their off-campus locations are still worth visiting. Gainesville’s spirit is tightly woven into its nostalgic setting. The food is diverse, and the sandwiches are innovative. For a quick snack or amazing lunch, this is the place to go. 

My official recommendation: #16 The Vegas-Don’t Ask Don’t Tell.

Tikka Express

The pinnacle of Indian cuisine is located across from campus on West University Avenue. If you’re close to this restaurant, you can smell the curry from your dorm. Walk, bike, run — whatever. Just go and be immersed in the amazing Indian food and unbeatable customer service. 

I highly recommend it for people who love meal prepping. One order here contains at least three meals worth of food.

A must-get order here: Chicken Tikka Masala accompanied by garlic naan.

Germain’s Chicken Sandwich

There’s no better place for a chicken sandwich than Germain's. Dressed like an ‘80s diner but packing the greatest fried chicken known to man, this place is incredible. Their service is just as good as their food. They outperform chicken-serving fast food chains on every level. I suggest bringing friends with you to this restaurant as the picnic tables allow for a casual atmosphere. 

The restaurant also sometimes brings in DJs to play while you enjoy your food. The food feels passionate and unique, reflecting the vigor and personality of the Gainesville community. I highly recommend visiting.

My personal favorite menu item: the Honey Bird.

The Spot

The name fits the face of this place. This restaurant will become a staple of your college life. Easily accessible on game days and busy afternoons, The Spot offers authentic Mediterranean food. No matter what you get, you’ll never leave hungry, but you’ll also never want to leave anything on your plate. 

Grab the best boba in Gainesville right next door at Tea Moment and enjoy the air conditioning for a little before you're back to slaving over bright blue Study Edge packets. This place is great for a quick bite to eat that will never lose your tongue’s favor.

You can’t go wrong with a staple, so for this restaurant, I recommend the Classic Gyro.

Tup Tim Thai

I couldn’t write this list without including my personal favorite. Thai food sits at the top of my list. Tup Tim Thai not only has the best Thai food in Gainesville but probably in the whole state. There’s no occasion where someone won’t benefit from the company of this restaurant's food and decor. It has an extensive menu with mouthwatering authenticity that’s truly worth your time. Whether it’s a spot for a date night, game day, family visit or post-exam bite, this restaurant is your true Gainesville staple.

Being my all-time favorite restaurant, I have to recommend multiple menu items. No matter when you go, you need to try the Panang Curry, Spicy Basil Fried Rice, Crab Rangoons and Drunken Noodles.

Closing remarks 

Gainesville is a diverse community threaded with an array of cultures and scenes. Navigating it isn’t easy, even for locals. 

The biggest advice anyone could give you, as a new student, is to challenge yourself. You probably hear “try new things” all the time, but I'm telling you to try uncomfortable things. 

Go to a restaurant that scares you. Order something that creeps you out a little. The more you eat and the more you feel, the more you understand the city. After all, you’re going to be here for four years.

Use this recommendation list or don’t; I won’t take offense. But I wish I had something like this my freshman year, even though I did eventually figure out the Gainesville food scene — as most of you will, fortuitously. 

Good luck, new students, and happy eating.

Aidan Ragan is a UF computer science senior. 