Source: SwampRentals
URL: https://www.swamprentals.com/help-finding-apartments/what-restaurants-are-near-uf-campus

A big part of campus life is the dining experience. Not only does the UF campus have cool restaurants to boast about, but there are many other options just off campus for students to enjoy as well. You can hop on over from your Gainesville apartment near campus to many amazing restaurants that have their own unique twist on food. Within this article, we will be discussing a few of the best places near the UF campus that will satisfy any student's taste buds.

Fan Faves
Panera Bread is a popular food franchise known for its great sandwiches, soups, flatbread pizzas, and more. Luckily, there is a Panera on 3443 South West Archer Road just a few minutes away from the UF campus, so you don't have to worry about using that precious gas money. Upon entering, students may sigh in delight at the smell of freshly baked bread this home-style restaurant is known for. After getting your food, take a seat in the dining room and enjoy your freshly made meal. It is definitely a cool place to check out and order some amazing cooking!

Chick-fil-A is another amazing restaurant that many a Floridian college student will be familiar with. However, if you are an out-of-state student living at a UF off-campus apartment, you probably won't know about Florida's favorite eatery. With its famous waffle fries and fried chicken sandwiches, Chick-fil-A is a great place for you to go and get a quick and tasty bite to eat before or after class. Located on Archer Road, this restaurant is not far from the UF campus at all. Swing by to get some great food!

Cool Cuisine
Blaze Pizza has its own unique take on the pizza pie, allowing customers to choose every ingredient put into their pizza. To top that off, it comes at an affordable price that will ease the anxieties of college students. Located on Archer Road like Chick-fil-A and Panera, this cool restaurant has quick service, friendly staff, and a modern seating area that you can choose from without needing to be seated. For students living at an off-campus apartment near UF, this is a great restaurant to stop by to get food specifically tailored to your specific preferences. Even if you need gluten-free options, they have those available for you too! So don't stress about not having an option tailored for you. It's definitely a great place to check out!

Kabab House is a tiny hole-in-the-wall mom-and-pop restaurant that specializes in Indian-Pakistani and Nepalese dishes. Their signature dishes incorporate different types of kabab-style food into the cuisine, allowing customers to experience the unique cultural flavors that they can't find in an ordinary American restaurant. Beef, chicken, and lamb kababs are available with different preparation methods and spices that each bring a unique taste to the dishes. Located at 2022 South West 34th Street, this restaurant is close to campus and a perfect choice for anyone wanting to try something new. When you have a chance go and get yourself some of this uniquely amazing food!